Conda test environment setup guide

This repository documents the environment in two files:

1. pyproject.toml
- Purpose: documents the core Python version and the main training dependencies.
- Use this when you want to understand the intended project environment at a high level.

2. requirements.tst
- Purpose: exact pip freeze snapshot from the original conda "test" environment.
- Use this when you want to reproduce the environment as closely as possible on another machine.


Recommended setup order

1. Move to the repository root

   cd /path/to/yolov12

2. Create the conda environment with the same Python version

   conda create -n test python=3.10.9 -y

3. Activate the environment

   conda activate test

4. Upgrade pip tools

   python -m pip install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel

5. Install the local YOLOv12 package in editable mode

   python -m pip install -e ./yolov12

6. Install the frozen package snapshot

   python -m pip install -r requirements.tst


Alternative setup

If you do not need the exact frozen environment and only want the main project dependencies:

   python -m pip install .
   python -m pip install -e ./yolov12

Note:
- "python -m pip install ." uses the root pyproject.toml.
- The local Ultralytics fork used by this project lives in ./yolov12, so the editable install is still recommended.


Important notes

1. requirements.tst contains an editable dependency:

   -e ./yolov12

   This means installation must be run from the repository root.

2. requirements.tst was captured from a machine that also had ROS-related Python packages installed.
- On a different machine, some packages may fail to install if the OS, CUDA, driver, or ROS stack is different.
- If exact reproduction fails, start from the "Alternative setup" section, then add only the packages you actually need.

3. GPU packages are included in requirements.tst.
- Make sure the target machine has a compatible NVIDIA driver and CUDA runtime support.

4. If torch or onnxruntime-gpu installation fails, install the GPU-compatible versions first, then rerun:

   python -m pip install -r requirements.tst


Validation

After installation, you can verify the environment with:

   python -V
   python -m pip show torch torchvision timm albumentations

Optional quick checks:

   python -c "import torch; print(torch.__version__); print(torch.cuda.is_available())"
   python -c "from ultralytics import YOLO; print('ultralytics import ok')"


Summary

- For closest reproduction: use requirements.tst
- For lighter setup: use pyproject.toml
- For this repository to work correctly: install ./yolov12 in editable mode
